DRG Model Requirements

Aims:
1) A list of requirements a DRG cell model has to fulfil to be accepted into a population of normal, healthy DRG models. Therefore, this is my definition of what 'normal' and 'healthy' mean.

2) Potentially a list of active biomarkers, although this can be defined by data and data analysis code and doesn't need to be as explicit as Aim 1.

--- Assumptions ---
Models represent healthy human DRG nociceptors.
	Working definition - channels are unmutated, and not modified in any way outside of what you would see in the central 2 std devs of human nociceptor data.
	Conductance densities are broadly functional. Not excessively large or small enough to represent loss of function.
	
Models represent 'normal' human DRG nociceptors.
	Working definition for normal - biomarkers are within 2 std deviations of the mean (Marder2011).

--- Aim 1 Requirements ---

1. No automaticity.
	Under 0 stimulation (biologically - no activation of ligand-gated channels e.g. TRPs) the model should not generate any APs ever. 
	Assumes models are deterministic.
	Reason: We're crudely equating spiking with increased likelihood of pain being experienced upstream. As no noxious stimuli implies no pain, that also should imply no spiking.
	Additional: Automaticity is interesting for chronic pain - e.g. where is the boundary between automaticity and quiesence and which parameters matter?
	
2. Stable RMP (simple steady state condition)
	Under 0 stimulation, resting membrane potential should be stable. (If we want to be fancy, we more generally want a stable steady state).
	Reason: Ion fluxes should balance out. Model should reach a steady state, if nothing is happening. 
	
	
3. No infinite spiking if stimulus is removed.
	After a stimulus that triggers 1 or more APs is halted, the model should eventually stop spiking.
	Reason: Pain ends, chronic pain is pathological.
	Additional: If we do see this, it is interesting behaviour relative to chronic pain. 
	
	--Questionable requirements??---
x. Spiking should stop even if continually stimuluated at low levels.
	At or close to rheobase, spiking should not continue indefinitely, as this is consistent with experimental results.
	Reason: Need justification from literature/Andre, but basically channels should eventually inactivate. At high stimulus currents we might not expect this to hold, but close to rheobase we probably do?
	
x. Spike frequency should change with stimulus intensity?
	Spike frequncy should vary (increase?) as stimulus amplitude is increased.
	Reason: More noxious stimuli should cause a different signal.
	
--- Aim 2 Requirements ---

1. Davidson et al. biomarkers.
	List:
	
2. Anabios data biomarkers that are separate to Davidson et al.?