What steps do I need to take to achieve the plan.

1. Ability to construct populations.
1. a) Biomarkers work
1. a) i) Biomarkers are implemented and tested
1. a) ii) Biomarkers are called in simulation code and stored
1. b) Stim protocol works
1. b) i) We choose what stim protocol we use
1. b) ii) We write code implementing it in the simulations whie allowing new protocols to also be run/updated
1. c) Calibration is defined
1. c) i) The biomarker values are put in a table
1. c) ii) We have a function that can decide if a model is in range, or not.

2. Mutations can be inserted
2. a) Mutations are selected
2. a) i) We find at least 1 7/8/9 mutation that causes neuropathic pain, ideally with reasons for why we chose those mutations, and with a range of effects (increased activation, decreased inactivation)
2. a) ii) We make a database of other mutations we find along the way in case we want to switch.
2. b) Mutation characterisation is extracted from paper
2. b) i) Digitise figures, work out which parameters they change.
2. c) Mutation models are constructed and tested.
2. c) i) Build NMODL files.
2. c) ii) Reproduce voltage clamp figures as close as possible. And reproduce wild type Nav figures for human if possible too  - we'll want this in the paper or sup mat.

3. Mutations alter excitability.
3. a) Rheobase rebasing is dealt with somehow
3. a) i) Need to run some prelim simulations to see how this changes as conductances are altered. And just plot conductances against rheobase and multiple spike rheobase.
3. a) ii) Decide from this info - how big a deal is it? What can we do about it (different options)? Which option is best (write down why!)?
3. b) Populations are simulated.
3. b) i) Run the populations and plot em.
3. c) Simulation results are analysed
3. c) i) What is the rate of hyperexcitability per mutation?
3. c) ii) Does hyperexcitability correlate with any conductances? Can we predict the vulnerable models?
3. c) iii) How do other biomarkers get affected by mutations? In particular rheobase? Do we need new biomarkers?

4. Drugs are characterised.
4. a) Which drugs we use are defined
4. a) i) Find systematic reviews of drugs, or at least most recent papers on selective Nav blockers and lidocaine and mexelitine.
4. a) ii) Make a database of candidates, look for well-characterised blockers (e.g. by kinetics), esp. if they're widely used or have been put through trials 
4. b) Drug models are developed
4. b) i) Get IC50s if possible, or at least ratios for off-target effects on other channels (e.g. on TTX-S and TTX-R)
4. b) ii) Get kinetic effects (e.g. effective IC50 increases with an exponential curve or something like that as inactivation gate changes to closed.)
4. c) Drugs applied to each population.
4. c) i) Define protocol
4. c) ii) Run simulations.
4. d) Results are analysed and optimal combinations found.
4. d) i) Potentially iterate c a bit. 
4. d) ii) Define measures on effectiveness of combination.
4. d) iii) Look for trends in effectiveness of combinations and correlations of drug conc agains conductances.

5. Simulations don't take forever
5. a) We can use our software in Archer.
5. a) i) Run my parallel test in Archer.
5. a) ii) Run a full population in Archer.
5. b) We parallelise our stuff (probably using Processes if I can't make Pool work)
5. b) i) Get code to make processes work and calculate right number of models to use or a method to give old process new work when it's done? Probably easier to give each process a defined chunk of work.
5. b) ii) Get it running in the main pom module.
